Adding Colby's article "Build a Content Management System for an E-commerce Store with Next.js and Sanity" (#305)
eggheadio/egghead-next: src/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity.mdx

## What is Sanity?

Sanity defines itself as more than just a CMS, but a content platform.

The core of the Sanity offering is a CMS, but they provide an enhanced developer experience and [content collaboration](https://www.sanity.io/solution/collaboration) features that give new powers to the traditional CMS.

For our project, we’ll use Sanity to store our product data, making it easily manageable whether it’s a single entrepreneur or a team of inventory managers.

## What will we build?

We’re going to create a new Next.js app that sources a list of products from Sanity.io.

We’ll take advantage of the [Sanity Client](https://www.sanity.io/docs/js-client) library to pull in our products from our CMS any time our project is built.

That will allow us to take that list of products and dynamically display them in a grid on our page for our visitors to browse.

> ## Step 0: Setting up an application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 0: Set up a Next.js application
```

To get started, we’re going to create our new project with Next.js.

In your terminal, we can create our new project by running:

```bash
yarn create next-app my-sanity-store
```

This will create a new Next.js application at `my-sanity-store`.

Once that’s finished installing, you can navigate into your project and start your development server:

```bash
cd my-sanity-store
yarn dev
```

That will load the Next.js app and we’ll be ready to go!

![New Next.js app](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg3gyk0gu/image/upload/v1611073514/next.egghead.io/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity/new-next-js-app_2x.png)

[Follow along with the commit!](https://github.com/colbyfayock/my-sanity-store/commit/943530cd199db8a9e6076b66465e7f91a1c7f760)

> ## Step 1: Creating a new Sanity Studio project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Create a new Sanity Studio project
```

> Tip: If this is your first time using Sanity, you’ll notice that there’s not a traditional “Sign Up” page like you typically would expect. Instead, once you create your project, Sanity will give you an opportunity to log in and connect your project to an account.

Inside of your terminal, first install the sanity-cli with:

```bash
yarn add @sanity/cli --global
```

Then, inside of the folder you’d like to create your new project, which should be separate from your Next.js project, run:

```bash
sanity init
```

If this is your first time logging into Sanity in your terminal, you’ll now be prompted to log in to an account. If you don’t have an account, logging in will set up that account for you with Google, GitHub, or it will give you the opportunity to sign up with an email and password.

Once logged in, Sanity will then prompt you to answer a few questions.

![Sanity Prompts](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg3gyk0gu/image/upload/v1611073515/next.egghead.io/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity/sanity-prompts_2x.png)

> You can name the project anything you’d like, but it will be used as Sanity is setting up your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can name the project anything you’d like. Sanity will use this name to set up the project for you.
```

> For the dataset configuration, we can stick with the default for now, so you can answer Yes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the dataset configuration, we can stick with the default for now, so you can answer "Yes."
```

> Finally, you can customize your output directory or let it use the default, which will create the project in the folder you’re in, based off of your project name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can customize your output directory or let it use the default. The default option will create the project in the folder you’re in based on your project name.
```

> Once you answer those first few questions, it will ask you to select a project template. If you’re starting from scratch and want to create a custom CMS schema, you may want to use Clean, but we’re going to build an ecommerce project, so let’s select the E-commerce option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you answer those first few questions, it will ask you to select a project template. If you’re starting from scratch and want to create a custom CMS schema, you may want to use "Clean", but we’re going to build an ecommerce project, so let’s select the "E-commerce" option.
```

![Setting up a new Sanity project in the terminal](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg3gyk0gu/image/upload/v1611073514/next.egghead.io/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity/setting-up-a-new-sanity-project-in-the-terminal_2x.png)

We can even upload sample data into our project to make it easier to test this out.

![Choosing to upload sample data to Sanity](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg3gyk0gu/image/upload/v1611073514/next.egghead.io/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity/choosing-to-upload-sample-data-to-sanity_2x.png)

> I’m going to select Yes so we can easily jump into sourcing the content into our application, but feel free to do this manually if you’d like with your own product selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’m going to select "Y" for Yes so we can easily jump into sourcing the content into our application, but feel free to do this manually if you’d like with your own product selection.
```

Finally, in order to make our CMS available on the internet, we’ll need to deploy it.

Here you have the option of [deploying it yourself](https://www.sanity.io/docs/deployment) or the recommended option, deploying it to Sanity itself.

If you want to deploy it to Sanity, inside of your project directory run:

```bash
sanity deploy
```

This will ask you what you’d like your hostname to be (it needs to be unique), then it will deploy your project to the Sanity cloud and make it available for you to open up, log in, and get started!

![Successfully deployed Sanity Studio to the cloud](https://res.cloudinary.com/dg3gyk0gu/image/upload/v1611073515/next.egghead.io/pages/learn/ecommerce/build-a-content-management-system-for-an-e-commerce-store-with-nextjs-and-sanity/successfully-deployed-sanity-studio-to-the-cloud_2x.png)

> It’s recommended that you add this repository on GitHub or your favorite Git provider and use that as a basis for future modifications to your Sanity project.

[See my Sanity Studio project on GitHub](https://github.com/colbyfayock/my-sanity-ecommerce-project)

> ## Step 2: Installing Sanity Client in a Next.js app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Install Sanity Client in a Next.js app
```

export const client = sanityClient({
  projectId: '[Project ID]',
  dataset: 'production',
  useCdn: true
});
```

> Tip: if you want to have more flexibility with setting up your project between different environments, you could consider using environment variables for the Project ID and Dataset ID

Here’s what we’re doing:

- First, we import the Sanity Client from the library
- We then export our client instance as a constant that we can use anywhere in our application
- We pass in our project ID
- We pass in our dataset ID, which if you used the default settings in Step 1 will be `production`
- We set `useCdn` to true, meaning, when we read our data from Sanity, we want to [get it cached](https://www.sanity.io/docs/api-cdn), which will make it super fast

> Looking for your Project ID? You can either find it inside of your Sanity.io account by navigating to your project or inside of the `sanity.json` file from Step 1 under `api.projectId`

And once we save our file, we’re ready to get out product data from Sanity in our next step!

[Follow along with the commit!](https://github.com/colbyfayock/my-sanity-store/commit/72d1139d929874f6046993dbbe0cbc3853a31452)

> ## Step 3: Adding products to our Next.js homepage from a Sanity.io project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Add products to our Next.js homepage from a Sanity.io project
```
